ospdo docs -  setup and backend services (#708)
openstack-k8s-operators/data-plane-adoption: docs_user/assemblies/assembly_prepare_director_operator_and_rhoso_for_adoption_process.adoc

ifdef::context[:parent-context: {context}]

> [id="prepare_director_operator_and_rhoso_for_adoption_process"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="prepare-director-operator-and-rhoso-for-adoption-process_{context}"]
```

Author: ok

> :context: migrating-databases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:context: prepare-director-operator
```
The director operator assembly needs its own unique context.

Author: ok

> = Preparing director operator for adoption

Author: yep, changing

> 

Reviewer: We need an introduction that tells the customer what they're about to do in the procedure. I propose something like:
"Before you adopt your Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) director Operator (OSPdO) deployment, you must prepare the Controller nodes for adoption to the RHOSO environment."

^ I think there's more to it than that. Please feel free to add suggestions.

Author: Katie, the controller preperation is for customers with a specific setup - the one listed in the below note (shared OCP environment) 
Would it make more sense to put this introduction under the below NOTE section ?

Author: currently put it on line 14

Reviewer: The intro that describes what customers are doing in the procedure should go before the note. Typically we don't start an intro with a note.

Author: ok , switching the order

[NOTE]
====

> The example use case presented here is of a single OCP cluster, being shared by the source ODPdO env. _and_ a destination RHOSO env. Two OCP master nodes would be transferred to RHOSO use, leaving OSPdO with one for the adoption process, after which the remaining one can be used by RHOSO env. as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following procedure uses a single {rhocp_long} cluster that is shared by the source OSPdO env.ironment and a destination {rhos_acro} environment. Two {OpenShiftShort} master nodes are transferred to the {rhos_acro} environment, leaving OSPdO with one node for the adoption process. After adoption, the remaining node can be used by the {rhos_acro}  environment as well.
```
I'm not sure I understand the part "leaving OSPdO with one node for the adoption process." If you've transferred two master nodes to RHOSO, doesn't that mean they've already been adopted too? 
I guess I don't understand the reason why you adopt the master nodes first and then the remaining node.

Author: I'll try short explanation: (appologies if somethings are unclear feel free to ask on any point)
- by "transfer nodes" I mean letting the RHOSO use the 2 master nodes for infrastructure only , and not OSPdO (which is left with one), so the two nodes are labled for RHOSO and would only be running RHOSO related resources.
- by adoption we mean injecting the OSP services' databases contents we had in ODPdO (or source env) into the new RHOSO service databases.
- so for the adoption you would need a destination (RHOSO) service with a "blank" database waiting to recieve the original database from OSPdO.
In an example, flow for a nova service migration: on old env dump the nova database into a file , stop the old nova service -> on new env start new service , inject the old database -> run some scripts on the computes nodes so that the computes will now be belonging to the new RHOSO env.

I believe the reason for letting the customer have a middle stage where the old services are still running os for step by step adoption, and letting the customers run checks and have more granular controll over the process

Reviewer: Makes sense. Thank you for the explanation!

====

> Work in the openstack project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Log in to the {OpenShift } environment where {OpenStackShort} OSPdO is deployed and change to the project that hosts your {OpenStackShort} deployment:
```
I stole this text from [1]. I think this still applies.
[1] https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openstack_platform/16.2/html-single/service_telemetry_framework_1.5/index#deploying-the-overcloud-for-director-operator_assembly-completing-the-stf-configuration-using-director-operator

Author: ok

[,bash]
----
oc project openstack

> ----

Author: ok

> Define common environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Define the common environment variables:
+
```

Author: ok

> [,bash]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: ok

----
PASSWORD_FILE="tripleo-passwords.yaml"
export PASSWORD_FILE

OSP18_NAMESPACE="osp18"
export OSP18_NAMESPACE

OSPDO_NAMESPACE="openstack"
export OSPDO_NAMESPACE

OS_CLIENT="oc exec -c openstackclient -t openstackclient -- "
export OS_CLIENT

CONTROLLER_SSH="oc rsh -n $OSPDO_NAMESPACE -c openstackclient openstackclient ssh controller-0.ctlplane"
export CONTROLLER_SSH

CONTROLLER1_SSH="oc -n $OSPDO_NAMESPACE rsh -c openstackclient openstackclient ssh controller-0.ctlplane"
export CONTROLLER1_SSH
CONTROLLER2_SSH=
export CONTROLLER2_SSH
CONTROLLER3_SSH=
export CONTROLLER3_SSH

OSPDO_INTERNAL_API_NET="internalapi"
export OSPDO_INTERNAL_API_NET

STORAGE_CLASS=$(oc get -n $OSPDO_NAMESPACE pvc openstackclient-hosts -o jsonpath='{.spec.storageClassName}')
export STORAGE_CLASS
----

> Get the node name upon which the current OSP controller VM is running.  This step will need to be modified with 3 running OSP controllers.  Modify to select one of the OSP nodes.
> [,bash]
> ----
> CONTROLLER_NODE=$(oc -n $OSPDO_NAMESPACE get vmi -ojson | jq -r '.items[0].status.nodeName')
> export CONTROLLER_NODE
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Get the name of the node where the current {OpenStackShort} controller VM is running:
+
----
$ CONTROLLER_NODE=$(oc -n $OSPDO_NAMESPACE get vmi -ojson | jq -r '.items[0].status.nodeName')
export CONTROLLER_NODE
----
+
Repeat this step for the remaining Controller nodes in your environment.
```
Please confirm that "Repeat this step for the remaining Controller nodes in your environment" is not changing the meaning of the original text.

Author: ok , and 
not sure about the question , there is no need for the "Repeat this step for the remaining .." line here , the client only needs to define the designated controller running the ODPdO controller VM.

Disable stonith:
[,bash]
----
stonith_resources=$(sudo pcs stonith status|grep Started|awk '{print $2}')
for in in stonith_resources ;do CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs stonith disable ;done
----
Put non controller nodes in maintannace
[,bash]
----
CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs node maintenance controller-1 controller-2
----
Update quorum for single node:
[,bash]
----
CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo systemctl stop corosync
CONTROLLER2_SSH sudo systemctl stop corosync
CONTROLLER3_SSH sudo systemctl stop corosync
CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs quorum update last_man_standing=1 wait_for_all=1
CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo systemctl restart corosync
----
Restart pcmk cluster
[,bash]
----
CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs cluster stop
CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs cluster start
----
Remove OSPdO NNCPs from the other two nodes which are not running the controller VM by placing a nodeSelector on the OCP node containing the controller VM.
[,bash]
----
for i in br-ctlplane br-ex br-osp; do oc patch osnetconfig openstacknetconfig --type json -p '[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/attachConfigurations/'$i'/nodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy/nodeSelector", "value": {"kubernetes.io/hostname": "'$CONTROLLER_NODE'"}}]'; done
----

> == Preparing RHOSO for adoption

Reviewer: This assembly is going to need to be split into 3 files:
- Top-level assembly
   -  Preparing director operator procedure
   -  Preparing RHOSO procedure
   
   I can do that after all the content is merged.

Author: ok sound good

====

Before you adopt your Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) director Operator (OSPdO) deployment, you must prepare the Controller nodes for adoption to the RHOSO environment.

. Log in to the {OpenShift } environment where {OpenStackShort} OSPdO is deployed and change to the project that hosts your {OpenStackShort} deployment:
+
----
$ oc project openstack
----

. Define the common environment variables:
----
PASSWORD_FILE="tripleo-passwords.yaml"
export PASSWORD_FILE

OSP18_NAMESPACE="osp18"
export OSP18_NAMESPACE

OSPDO_NAMESPACE="openstack"
export OSPDO_NAMESPACE

OS_CLIENT="oc exec -c openstackclient -t openstackclient -- "
export OS_CLIENT

CONTROLLER_SSH="oc rsh -n $OSPDO_NAMESPACE -c openstackclient openstackclient ssh controller-0.ctlplane"
export CONTROLLER_SSH

CONTROLLER1_SSH="oc -n $OSPDO_NAMESPACE rsh -c openstackclient openstackclient ssh controller-0.ctlplane"
export CONTROLLER1_SSH
CONTROLLER2_SSH=
export CONTROLLER2_SSH
CONTROLLER3_SSH=
export CONTROLLER3_SSH

OSPDO_INTERNAL_API_NET="internalapi"
export OSPDO_INTERNAL_API_NET

STORAGE_CLASS=$(oc get -n $OSPDO_NAMESPACE pvc openstackclient-hosts -o jsonpath='{.spec.storageClassName}')
export STORAGE_CLASS
----

> . Get the name of the node where the current {OpenStackShort} controller VM is running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Get the name of the node where the current {OpenStackShort} Controller virtual machine (VM) is running:
```

Author: ok

+
----
$ CONTROLLER_NODE=$(oc -n $OSPDO_NAMESPACE get vmi -ojson | jq -r '.items[0].status.nodeName')
export CONTROLLER_NODE

> ----
> +
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
```

> In case we're using a combo master/worker cluster with an HA OSPdO env,
> configure OSPdO to use a single Osp controller:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you are using a combination master/worker cluster with a high availability OSPdO environment,
configure OSPdO to use a single {OpenStackShort} Controller node:
```

Author: ok

> Disable stonith:
> [,bash]
> ----
> stonith_resources=$(sudo pcs stonith status|grep Started|awk '{print $2}')
> for in in stonith_resources ;do CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs stonith disable ;done
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Disable stonith:
+
----
$ stonith_resources=$(sudo pcs stonith status|grep Started|awk '{print $2}')
for in in stonith_resources ;do CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs stonith disable ;done
----
```

Author: ok

> Put non controller nodes in maintannace
> [,bash]
> ----
> CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs node maintenance controller-1 controller-2
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Put non-Controller nodes in maintenance:
+
----
$CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs node maintenance controller-1 controller-2
----
```

Reviewer: I think this is a good example of needing a user-replacement value. I could see customers blindly copying and pasting "controller-1, controller-2".

Author: ok

Update quorum for single node:
[,bash]
----
CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo systemctl stop corosync
CONTROLLER2_SSH sudo systemctl stop corosync
CONTROLLER3_SSH sudo systemctl stop corosync
CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs quorum update last_man_standing=1 wait_for_all=1
CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo systemctl restart corosync
----

> Restart pcmk cluster
> [,bash]
> ----
> CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs cluster stop
> CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs cluster start
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Restart the Pacemaker cluster:
+
----
$CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs cluster stop
$CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs cluster start
----
```

Author: ok

> Remove OSPdO NNCPs from the other two nodes which are not running the controller VM by placing a nodeSelector on the OCP node containing the controller VM.
> [,bash]
> ----
> for i in br-ctlplane br-ex br-osp; do oc patch osnetconfig openstacknetconfig --type json -p '[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/attachConfigurations/'$i'/nodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy/nodeSelector", "value": {"kubernetes.io/hostname": "'$CONTROLLER_NODE'"}}]'; done
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Remove the OSPdO node network configuration policies from the other two nodes that are not running the Controller VM by placing a `nodeSelector` on the {OpenShiftShort} node that contains the Controller VM:
+
----
$ for i in br-ctlplane br-ex br-osp; do oc patch osnetconfig openstacknetconfig --type json -p '[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/attachConfigurations/'$i'/nodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy/nodeSelector", "value": {"kubernetes.io/hostname": "'$CONTROLLER_NODE'"}}]'; done
----
```

Author: ok

ifdef::context[:parent-context: {context}]

[id="prepare-director-operator-and-rhoso-for-adoption-process_{context}"]

:context: prepare-director-operator

= Preparing director Operator for adoption

Before you adopt your Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) director Operator (OSPdO) deployment, you must prepare the Controller nodes for adoption to the RHOSO environment.

[NOTE]
====
The following procedure uses a single {rhocp_long} cluster that is shared by the source OSPdO environment and a destination {rhos_acro} environment. Two {OpenShiftShort} master nodes are transferred to the {rhos_acro} environment, leaving OSPdO with one node for the duration of the adoption process. After adoption, the remaining node can be used by the {rhos_acro}  environment as well.
====

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Procedure

```

Author: ok

+
----
$CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs node maintenance <controller-1> <controller-2>
----
+
* Replace `<controller-1>` and `<controller-2>` with the names of the Controller nodes in your environment.

.. Update the quorum for single node:
+
----
$CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo systemctl stop corosync
$CONTROLLER2_SSH sudo systemctl stop corosync
$CONTROLLER3_SSH sudo systemctl stop corosync
$CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs quorum update last_man_standing=1 wait_for_all=1
$CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo systemctl restart corosync
----
.. Restart the Pacemaker cluster:
+
----
$CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs cluster stop
$CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs cluster start
----
.. Remove the OSPdO node network configuration policies from the other two nodes that are not running the Controller VM by placing a `nodeSelector` on the {OpenShiftShort} node that contains the Controller VM:
+
----
$ for i in br-ctlplane br-ex br-osp; do oc patch osnetconfig openstacknetconfig --type json -p '[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/attachConfigurations/'$i'/nodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy/nodeSelector", "value": {"kubernetes.io/hostname": "'$CONTROLLER_NODE'"}}]'; done
----

== Preparing RHOSO for adoption

> When deploying a RHOSO env. usign the same master nodes, make sure
> to take the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you deploy a {rhos_long} environment by using two Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform master nodes, you must perform the following actions:
* Create a new namespace for {rhos_acro} installation.
* Create custom node network configuration policies.
* Create  `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` custom resources for each isolated network.
* Install {rhos_acro} operators.
```
Does "the same" refer to the two OpenShift master nodes that were used in the previous procedure?
Also, does the list I added accurately summarize what the customer is going to do in this procedure? (We don't have to list everything; it's just a high-level summary).

Author: yes , 'the same' is those same controllers used previously by th ospdo env.
and yes, that is a good high level summary

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Procedure

```

> Get the names of the other two nodes that we will use for NG
> [,bash]
> ----
> NG_NODES=$(oc get nodes -o name | grep -v $CONTROLLER_NODE | sed 's#node/##g' | tr '\n' ' ')
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Get the names of the other two nodes to use for NG:
+
----
$ NG_NODES=$(oc get nodes -o name | grep -v $CONTROLLER_NODE | sed 's#node/##g' | tr '\n' ' ')
----
```
@pinikomarov What is NG?

> Extract nodes to be used for OSP 18 installation and label nodes.
> [,bash]
> ----
> OSP18_NODE1=$(echo "${NG_NODES}" | cut -d ' ' -f 1)
> export OSP18_NODE1
> OSP18_NODE2=$(echo "${NG_NODES}" | cut -d ' ' -f 2)
> export OSP18_NODE2
> oc label nodes "${OSP18_NODE1}" type=openstack
> oc label nodes "${OSP18_NODE2}" type=openstack
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Extract the nodes to use for OpenStack 18 installation and label the nodes:
+
----
$ OSP18_NODE1=$(echo "${NG_NODES}" | cut -d ' ' -f 1)
export OSP18_NODE1
$ OSP18_NODE2=$(echo "${NG_NODES}" | cut -d ' ' -f 2)
export OSP18_NODE2
$ oc label nodes "${OSP18_NODE1}" type=openstack
$ oc label nodes "${OSP18_NODE2}" type=openstack
----
```
@pinikomarov Is OpenStack 18 correct? It shouldn't be RHOSO 18.0 instead?

Author: right changing

> Create a new namespace to use for installation of RHOSO.  RHOSO must be installed in a different namespace from OSPdO.
> [,bash]
> ----
> oc get namespace ${OSP18_NAMESPACE} 2>/dev/null || {
>     oc create namespace ${OSP18_NAMESPACE} || {
>         echo "Failed to create namespace ${OSP18_NAMESPACE}"
>         exit 1
>     }
> }
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a new namespace to use to install {rhos_acro}. You must install {rhos_acro} in a different namespace from OSPdO:
+
----
$ oc get namespace ${OSP18_NAMESPACE} 2>/dev/null || {
    oc create namespace ${OSP18_NAMESPACE} || {
        echo "Failed to create namespace ${OSP18_NAMESPACE}"
        exit 1
    }
}
----
```

> Create custom NNCPs for NG.  The NNCPs will use the nodeSelector attribute to be constrained to OSP18_NODE1/2.  The new NNCP will mirror the existing NNCPs.  For this document, the subnets ranges are being reused.  In addition, OSPdO’s use of bridges for the control and external interfaces is duplicated.
> 
> [,bash]
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create custom node network configuration policies for NG: 
+
[NOTE]
The node network configuration policies use the `nodeSelector` attribute to be constrained to `OSP18_NODE1/2`.  The new node network configuration policy mirrors the existing node network configuration policies.  In the following example, the subnets ranges are reused.  In addition, OSPdO’s use of bridges for the control and external interfaces is duplicated.
+
----
```
@pinikomarov What is OSP18_NODE1/2`?
And what do we mean by "OSPdO’s use of bridges for the control and external interfaces is duplicated"? Does that mean that the same bridge is used for the control interface AND the external interface?

Author: During adoption the source and dest env must have network connectivity on the different OSP vlans like control-plane,
so here we're creating a new bridge , this time on the rhoso namespace (so it's seperate from the ospdo one), it will be on the same nic but have a subnet range which is a continuation of the ospdo one.
i.e. 
ospdo: br-ctlplane bridge on nic enp1s0, with subnet range 172.22.0.150-250 
<=> 
rhoso: ospdo br-ctlplane bridge on nic enp1s0, with subnet range 172.22.0.100-150
ref. https://github.com/atyronesmith/ospdo-migration/blob/3514c483eca9164fc49494ff522c8efb88f175ca/networks.txt

> oc apply -f - <<EOF

Author: ok

      ipv6:
        enabled: false
    - description: storagemgmt vlan interface
      name: enp7s0.40
      state: up
      type: vlan
      vlan:
        base-iface: enp7s0
        id: 40
        reorder-headers: true
      ipv4:
        address:
        - ip: 172.20.0.5
          prefix-length: 24
        enabled: true
        dhcp: false
      ipv6:
        enabled: false
    - description: Configuring Bridge ospbr with interface enp1s0
      name: br-ctlplane
      mtu: 1500
      type: linux-bridge
      state: up
      bridge:
        options:
          stp:
            enabled: false
        port:
          - name: enp1s0
            vlan: {}
      ipv4:
        address:
        - ip: 172.22.0.51
          prefix-length: 24
        enabled: true
        dhcp: false
      ipv6:
        enabled: false
    - description: external bridge
      name: br-external
      type: linux-bridge
      mtu: 1500
      ipv6:
        enabled: false
      ipv4:
        enabled: false
      bridge:
        options:
          stp:
            enabled: false
        port:
        - name: enp6s0
  nodeSelector:
    kubernetes.io/hostname: <OSP18_NODE1>
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker: ""
EOF

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
* Replace `<OSP18_NODE1>` with the name of your node.
```

Author: ok

      "type": "bridge",
      "master": "br-ctlplane",
      "ipam": {
        "type": "whereabouts",
        "range": "172.22.0.0/24",
        "range_start": "172.22.0.30",
        "range_end": "172.22.0.70"
      }
    }
---
apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: internalapi
  namespace: <OSP18_NAMESPACE>
spec:
  config: |
    {
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "internalapi",
      "type": "macvlan",
      "master": "enp7s0.20",
      "ipam": {
        "type": "whereabouts",
        "range": "172.17.0.0/24",
        "range_start": "172.17.0.30",
        "range_end": "172.17.0.70"
      }
    }
---
apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: external
  namespace: <OSP18_NAMESPACE>
spec:
  config: |
    {
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "external",
      "type": "macvlan",
      "master": "br-external",
      "ipam": {
        "type": "whereabouts",
        "range": "10.0.0.0/24",
        "range_start": "10.0.0.30",
        "range_end": "10.0.0.70"
      }
    }
---
apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: storage

>   namespace: ${OSP18_NAMESPACE}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  namespace: $<OSP18_NAMESPACE>
```

spec:
  config: |
    {
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "storage",
      "type": "macvlan",
      "master": "enp7s0.30",
      "ipam": {
        "type": "whereabouts",
        "range": "172.18.0.0/24",
        "range_start": "172.18.0.30",
        "range_end": "172.18.0.70"
      }
    }
---
apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: storagemgmt
  namespace: <OSP18_NAMESPACE>
spec:
  config: |
    {
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "storagemgmt",
      "type": "macvlan",
      "master": "enp7s0.40",
      "ipam": {
        "type": "whereabouts",
        "range": "172.19.0.0/24",
        "range_start": "172.19.0.30",
        "range_end": "172.19.0.70"
      }
    }
---
apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: tenant
  namespace: <OSP18_NAMESPACE>
spec:
  config: |
    {
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "tenant",
      "type": "macvlan",
      "master": "enp7s0.50",
      "ipam": {
        "type": "whereabouts",
        "range": "172.20.0.0/24",
        "range_start": "172.20.0.30",
        "range_end": "172.20.0.70"
      }
    }
EOF

> ----
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
* Replace `<OSP18_NAMESPACE>` with your OpenStack 18 namespace.
```

> Make sure OVNKubernetes IPForwarding is enabled
> [,bash]
> ----
> oc patch network.operator cluster -p '{"spec":{"defaultNetwork":{"ovnKubernetesConfig":{"gatewayConfig":{"ipForwarding": "Global"}}}}}' --type=merge
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Make sure `OVNKubernetes IPForwarding` is enabled:
+
----
$ oc patch network.operator cluster -p '{"spec":{"defaultNetwork":{"ovnKubernetesConfig":{"gatewayConfig":{"ipForwarding": "Global"}}}}}' --type=merge
----
```

Author: ok

> Extract and save passwords from OSPdO
> [,bash]
> ----
> oc get secret tripleo-passwords -n $OSPDO_NAMESPACE -o json | jq -r '.data["tripleo-overcloud-passwords.yaml"]' | base64 -d >"${PASSWORD_FILE}" || {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Extract and save passwords from OSPdO:
+
----
$ oc get secret tripleo-passwords -n $OSPDO_NAMESPACE -o json | jq -r '.data["tripleo-overcloud-passwords.yaml"]' | base64 -d >"${PASSWORD_FILE}" || {
```

Author: ok

    echo "ERROR: Failed to extract passwords from OSPdO"
    exit 1
}
----

Install the RHOSO operators:
[,bash]
----

> git clone https://github.com/openstack-k8s-operators/install_yamls.git

Author: ok

cd install_yamls
BMO_SETUP=false NETWORK_ISOLATION=false NAMESPACE=${OSP18_NAMESPACE} make openstack
BMO_SETUP=false NETWORK_ISOLATION=false make metallb
----

> 
> Apply IPAddressPool that matches the new OSP 18 deployment
> [,bash]
> ----
> oc apply -f - <<EOF

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Apply the `IPAddressPool` range that matches the new OpenStack 18 deployment:
+
----
$ oc apply -f - <<EOF
```

Author: ok

apiVersion: metallb.io/v1beta1
kind: IPAddressPool
...
----

> Apply L2Advertisement
> [,bash]
> ----
> cat << EOF | oc apply -f -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Apply the `L2Advertisement` resource to define how the Virtual IPs are announced:
+
----
$ cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
```

Author: ok

+
----
$ oc project openstack
----

. Define the common environment variables:
----
export PASSWORD_FILE="tripleo-passwords.yaml"

export RHOSO18_NAMESPACE="rhoso18"

export OSPDO_NAMESPACE="openstack"

export OS_CLIENT="oc exec -c openstackclient -t openstackclient -- "

export CONTROLLER_SSH="oc rsh -n $OSPDO_NAMESPACE -c openstackclient openstackclient ssh controller-0.ctlplane"

export CONTROLLER1_SSH="oc -n $OSPDO_NAMESPACE rsh -c openstackclient openstackclient ssh controller-0.ctlplane"
export CONTROLLER2_SSH=
export CONTROLLER3_SSH=

export OSPDO_INTERNAL_API_NET="internalapi"

export STORAGE_CLASS=$(oc get -n $OSPDO_NAMESPACE pvc openstackclient-hosts -o jsonpath='{.spec.storageClassName}')
----

. Get the name of the node where the current {OpenStackShort} Controller virtual machine (VM) is running:
+
----
$ export CONTROLLER_NODE=$(oc -n $OSPDO_NAMESPACE get vmi -ojson | jq -r '.items[0].status.nodeName')
----

. If you are using a combination master/worker cluster with a high availability OSPdO environment,
configure OSPdO to use a single {OpenStackShort} Controller node:

> .. Disable stonith:

Reviewer 2: THis step and substep looks repeated below with more detail

$CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs quorum update last_man_standing=1 wait_for_all=1
$CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo systemctl restart corosync
----
.. Restart the Pacemaker cluster:
+
----
$CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs cluster stop
$CONTROLLER1_SSH sudo pcs cluster start
----
.. Remove the OSPdO node network configuration policies from the other two nodes that are not running the Controller VM by placing a `nodeSelector` on the {OpenShiftShort} node that contains the Controller VM:
+
----
$ for i in br-ctlplane br-ex br-osp; do oc patch osnetconfig openstacknetconfig --type json -p '[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/attachConfigurations/'$i'/nodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy/nodeSelector", "value": {"kubernetes.io/hostname": "'$CONTROLLER_NODE'"}}]'; done
----

== Preparing RHOSO for adoption

When you deploy a {rhos_long} environment by using two Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform master nodes, you must perform the following actions:
* Create a new namespace for {rhos_acro} installation.
* Create custom node network configuration policies.
* Create  `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` custom resources for each isolated network.
* Install {rhos_acro} operators.
.Procedure

> . Get the names of the other two nodes that we will use for RHOSO

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Save the hostnames of the remaining two nodes to the `RHOSO_NODES` variable:
```

      "name": "storage",
      "type": "macvlan",
      "master": "enp7s0.30",
      "ipam": {
        "type": "whereabouts",
        "range": "172.18.0.0/24",
        "range_start": "172.18.0.30",
        "range_end": "172.18.0.70"
      }
    }
---
apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: storagemgmt
  namespace: <RHOSO18_NAMESPACE>
spec:
  config: |
    {
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "storagemgmt",
      "type": "macvlan",
      "master": "enp7s0.40",
      "ipam": {
        "type": "whereabouts",
        "range": "172.19.0.0/24",
        "range_start": "172.19.0.30",
        "range_end": "172.19.0.70"
      }
    }
---
apiVersion: k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: tenant
  namespace: <RHOSO18_NAMESPACE>
spec:
  config: |
    {
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "name": "tenant",
      "type": "macvlan",
      "master": "enp7s0.50",
      "ipam": {
        "type": "whereabouts",
        "range": "172.20.0.0/24",
        "range_start": "172.20.0.30",
        "range_end": "172.20.0.70"
      }
    }
EOF
----
+
* Replace `<RHOSO18_NAMESPACE>` with your OpenStack 18 namespace.

> . Make sure `OVNKubernetes IPForwarding` is enabled:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Ensure that the `OVNKubernetes IPForwarding` field is set to to `enabled`:
```

ifdef::context[:parent-context: {context}]

[id="prepare-director-operator-and-rhoso-for-adoption-process_{context}"]

:context: prepare-director-operator

= Preparing director Operator for adoption

Before you adopt your Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) director Operator (OSPdO) deployment, you must prepare the Controller nodes for adoption to the RHOSO environment.

[NOTE]
====
The following procedure uses a single {rhocp_long} cluster that is shared by the source OSPdO environment and a destination {rhos_acro} environment. Two {OpenShiftShort} master nodes are transferred to the {rhos_acro} environment, leaving OSPdO with one node for the duration of the adoption process. After adoption, the remaining node can be used by the {rhos_acro}  environment as well.
====
.Procedure

. Log in to the {OpenShift } environment where {OpenStackShort} OSPdO is deployed and change to the project that hosts your {OpenStackShort} deployment:
+
----
$ oc project openstack
----

. Define the common environment variables:
----
PASSWORD_FILE="tripleo-passwords.yaml"

> export PASSWORD_FILE

Author: ok , changing
